### Today I Learnt

- Electron, React - When making a Desktop App, there are Main Process and Rendered Processes. Main handles the main process and the renderer process is used to show the web page. More [here](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/application-architecture)
- Calling Native APIs are not allowed in web pages in electron (example system notification, file system access), we have to communicate with the Main process and let that handle the Native functionalities
  - This is done using ipcMain and ipcRenderer, using event-based communication between them.
- Problem: Calling `import {ipcRenderer} from 'electron'` in an un-ejected React app throws error `fs.existsSync is not a function`.

  - Solution: This is because webpack does not pack native nodejs fs module while bundling. To avoid ejected and modifying webpack we can use the following

    - Use libraries like craco to monkeypatch over the CRA configs
    - Use `preload.js` and use `window.ipcRenderer = require("electron").ipcRenderer;` This makes `ipcRenderer` available in `window`
      The second one is simpler to use.

- CSS Difference between `static`, `relative`, `absolute`,`fixed`

  - `Static` shows the element in order in which the elements are built
  - `Relative` shows the element in relative to its original appearance
  - `Absolute` places element in absolute reference to the nearest parent
  - `Fixed` places element in absolute reference to the browser window

- CSS before and After pseudo-elements

  - `::before` and `::after` can be used to insert content before or after the element. This won't appear in the dom tree. This can be used to add cosmetics to the page. More [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::before)

- Audio can be used to sync two video streams of the same event to generate clips that are almost in sync. It probably makes sense as it is why clapping is used in movies too, to make editing easy between cameras? But an interesting idea anyway.

- Takeaways from [Dan Abramov](https://twitter.com/dan_abramov/)'s article [here](https://overreacted.io/goodbye-clean-code/)

  - `Obsessing with “clean code” and removing duplication is a phase many of us go through. When we don’t feel confident in our code, it is tempting to attach our sense of self-worth and professional pride to something that can be measured. A set of strict lint rules, a naming schema, a file structure, a lack of duplication.`
    - Hits really hard.
  - `it messes with people’s sense of identity: “I’m the kind of person who writes clean code”. It’s as powerful as any sort of self-deception`
    - Probably basing your self-worth on the type of code you write is not really healthy. Clean code is a tool, to make it easier for the next feature to be added, changed or even removed. If your approach to clean code, makes these difficult is it worth it?
    - Also, is it easier to read, for someone new?
  - `Don’t be a clean code zealot. Clean code is not a goal.`
  - But also, in the above example, if there are a repetitive pieces of code, how to make sure, that there are no bugs that gets left out? For example, the same logic repeated in 5 places, hits bug at one place, a new developer, if assigned, would fix it easily at a single place, what about rest 4 places?
    - DRY is a good principle to live by, and like any other principle, should be evaluated each time before applying. Maybe avoid DRY if not repeated more than 2 times.
    - DRY works great if it's a source of truth [More here](http://verraes.net/2014/08/dry-is-about-knowledge/), but for a piece of code, we can use our judgment, it also depends on business use cases.
    - If the logic is business driven, leave them separately, if there are complex logic / formulas, those can be mostly abstracted out?
